.. title: Tai Chi Classics II

Tai Chi is born of infinity. It is the origin of the positive and the negative.
When Tai Chi is in motion, the positive and negative separate. When Tai Chi
stops, the positive and negative integrate.

When practicing Tai Chi, doing too much is the same as doing too little, so when
the body is in motion, it should follow the curve to extend the movements.

If your opposite side is hard, change your own side to make it soft. This is
called "following." If your opponent is moving and you adhere to him while
following in the same direction, it is called "sticking." Then you are
"attached" to your opponent; when he moves faster, you also move faster; when he
moves slower, you move slower, thereby matching his movement.

So, regardless of your opponent's actions, the principle of your response
remains the same. Once this type of movement has become your own, you will
understand the internal power.

After coming to an understanding of the internal power of movement, you can
approach the theory of Natural Awareness. Natural Awareness is developed through
practice over a long period of time; you cannot reach the sudden understanding
of Natural Awareness without proper practice for an extended length of time.

When you practice Tai Chi you should relax the neck and suspend your head as if
from a height above you. Internal power should sink to the lower part of the
abdomen. Your posture should keep to the center. Do no lean in any direction.
Your movements should be constantly changing from the substantial to the
insubstantial. If your left side feels heavy, you should make your left side
light. If your right side feels heavy, you should make your right side
disappear.

Make your opponent feel that when he looks upward, you are much taller and when
he looks downward, you are much lower. When he moves forward, he should feel
that he cannot reach you and when he retreats, he should feel that he has
nowhere to escape.

Your body's sensitivity should be such that you are aware of the tiniest feather
brushing against your skin. Even the mosquito should find no place to land on
you without causing you to move. Then there will be no way for your opponent to
detect or control you, but you will be aware of your opponent and control him.

If you achieve this level of sensitivity, there is no force that will defeat
you. There are thousands of methods and techniques in the martial arts.
Regardless of the techniques and postures employed, most depend on physical
condition (strong destroys weak) and speed (fast defeats slow). So that the weak
must fall to the strong and the slow must lose to the fast. This, however, is
dependent on physical ability and does not relate to the discipline which we now
discuss.

Look into the technique of using four ounces of energy to control the force of a
thousand pounds. Such techniques as these do no depend on brute force to
overcome.

Observe the ability of the old man who can successfully defend himself against
many opponents at once. This proves that speed does not determine victory.

When you practice Tai Chi, you should stand with your posture balanced like a
scale. When you move, your movements should revolve as effortlessly as the turn
of a wheel.

Following the changing situations, you move as is necessary. If you are unable
to respond in this way, you will become double-weighted. Often martial artists
who have practiced for years still cannot move properly and follow the flow of
their opponent's movement. This is essentially because they are hindered by
their own mistake of double-weightedness.

To avoid double-weightedness you should further understand that positive and
negative must complement each other. Then you will understand the flow of
internal power, and, having repeatedly practiced and refined your technique and
explored your own awareness, you can then use and control your internal power at
will.

Tai Chi principle is as simple as this: Yield yourself and follow the external
forces. Instead of doing this, most people ignore such obvious and simple
principles and search for a more remote and impractical method. This is the so
called "inches mistake" that when allowed to develop becomes the distance of
thousands of miles.

All disciples of Tai Chi should be aware of this and study diligently.
